Cbor encoding (#163)
ietf-wg-spice/draft-ietf-spice-sd-cwt: draft-ietf-spice-sd-cwt.md

Neither JSON {{?RFC8259}} nor JWT {{?RFC7519}} can represent infinite values.

## Allowed types of CBOR map keys

According to Section 1.1 of the CBOR Web Token Specification {{!RFC8392}}, "CBOR uses text strings, negative integers, and unsigned integers as map keys."
Section 1.5 of CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE): Structures and Process {{!RFC9052}} states: "In COSE, we use text strings, negative integers, and unsigned integers as map keys."
While a CBOR map key can contain any CBOR type, this statement implies that CWT map keys only contain those types.

An SD-CWT payload is typically its COSE payload.
{{?RFC9597}} also defines the `CWT Claims` COSE Header Parameter (value 15) that can appear in the protected headers; if it exists, it contains a CBOR map with additional claims that are treated as if they were in the SD-CWT payload.
Both of these maps are described as SD-CWT Claims Maps.

> Note that `CWT Claims` is a separate CBOR map from the COSE payload and can contain the same Claim Keys as the COSE payload CBOR map.
The same claim key could be present in both maps and could have different values in those maps.

> Neither, one, or both could be redacted, and if both are redacted they would have different disclosures, salts, and Blinded Claim Hashes.

Reviewer: https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9597.html#name-representation says:
> In cases where CWT claims are present both in the payload and the header of a CWT, an application receiving such a structure MUST verify that their values are identical, unless the application defines other specific processing rules for these claims.

We seem to be looser than RFC 9597 in that we're not repeating that text about verifying that claims appearing twice MUST be identical.  I'd advocate repeating the sentence above in SD-CWT.

Neither JSON {{?RFC8259}} nor JWT {{?RFC7519}} can represent infinite values.

## Allowed types of CBOR map keys

According to Section 1.1 of the CBOR Web Token Specification {{!RFC8392}}, "CBOR uses text strings, negative integers, and unsigned integers as map keys."
Section 1.5 of CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE): Structures and Process {{!RFC9052}} states: "In COSE, we use text strings, negative integers, and unsigned integers as map keys."
While a CBOR map key can contain any CBOR type, this statement implies that CWT map keys only contain those types.

An SD-CWT payload is typically its COSE payload.
{{?RFC9597}} also defines the `CWT Claims` COSE Header Parameter (value 13) that can appear in the protected header; it MAY contain a CBOR map with additional claims that are treated as if they were in the SD-CWT payload.
Both of these maps are described as an SD-CWT Payload Map.

> Note that `CWT Claims` is a separate CBOR map from the COSE payload and MAY contain the same Claim Keys as the COSE payload CBOR map.

> This specification extends CWT to allow a few additional types (TBD) that MAY be present in SD-CWT Payload Maps. It also clarifies which CBOR types are allowed inside map keys in SD-KBT and SD-CWT:

Author: ```suggestion
An SD-CWT is a format based on CWT.
It allows some additional types inside map keys to indicate values that were or should be redacted.
This specification also includes some constraints on SD-CWTs and SD-KBTs to improve robustness.
```

> This specification extends CWT to allow a few additional types (TBD) that MAY be present in SD-CWT Payload Maps. It also clarifies which CBOR types are allowed inside map keys in SD-KBT and SD-CWT:

Author: Rewrote paragraph

- The SD-KBT protected header `kcwt` Header Parameter exclusively contains:
  - a single valid SD-CWT
- The SD-KBT payload map; unprotected header map; and protected header map (excluding the `kcwt` Header Parameter) exclusively contain map keys (at any level of depth) with the following map key types:
  - unsigned integers
  - negative integers
  - text strings with a length no greater than 255 octets
- The SD-CWT unprotected header map; and the protected header map (excluding the `CWT Claims` Header Parameter) exclusively contain map keys (at any level of depth) with the following map key types:
  - unsigned integers
  - negative integers
  - text strings with a length no greater than 255 octets
- The SD-CWT Payload Maps at the first level of depth, exclusively contain maps keys with the following map key types:
  - unsigned integers;
  - negative integers;
  - text strings with a length no greater than 255 octets;
  - the simple value TBD4; or

>   - when the payload is communicated between the Holder and the Issuer:

Reviewer: Agreed

    - the To Be Decoy tag (TBD) containing a positive integer, or
    - the To Be Redacted tag {{tbr-tag}} containing:
      - an unsigned integer,
      - a negative integer, or
      - a text strings with a length no greater than 255 octets.
- The SD-CWT Payload Maps at greater than the first level of depth, exclusively contain maps keys
  - unsigned integers;
  - negative integers;
  - text strings with a length no greater than 255 octets;
  - the simple value TBD4; or

>   - when the payload is communicated between the Holder and the Issuer:

Reviewer: Yes

>   - when the payload is communicated between the Holder and the Issuer:

Author: ```suggestion
  - when disclosable claims are communicated between the Holder and the Issuer, prior to issuance:
```

    - the To Be Decoy tag (TBD) containing a positive integer, or
    - the To Be Redacted tag {{tbr-tag}} containing:
      - an unsigned integer,
      - a negative integer, or
      - a text strings with a length no greater than 255 octets.

> In other words an SD-CWT Payload Map conforms to the `sd_cwt_payload_map` CDDL definition.

Author: I may remove the reference to the CDDL here or have a new name for the type.

In SD-CWTs exchanged between the Holder and the Issuer, map keys MAY also consist of the To Be Redacted tag (defined in {{tbr-tag}}), containing an integer or text string; or a To Be Decoy tag (defined in TBD), containing a positive integer.
These tags provide a way for the Holder to indicate specific claims to be redacted or decoys to be inserted.

Note that Holders presenting to a Verifier that does not support this specification would need to present a CWT without tagged map keys or simple value map keys.

Tagged keys are not registered in the CBOR Web Token Claims IANA registry.
Instead, the tag provides additional information about the tagged Claim Key and the corresponding (untagged) value.
Multiple levels of tags in a map key are not permitted.

## Duplicate map key detection

Implementations MUST NOT send multiple map keys inside the same CBOR map having the same CBOR Preferred Encoding (see {{Section 4.1 of !RFC8949}}).
This applies to any map anywhere in an SD-CWT or an SD-KBT.

> Note that it is not necessary to actually encode the map keys using Preferred Encoding to satisfy this requirement.

> Likewise a single SD-CWT claim set MUST NOT contain a map (at any level of depth) with both a map key `k`, and `k` tagged with the To Be Redacted tag (see {{tbr-tag}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Likewise, a single SD-CWT claim set MUST NOT contain a map (at any level of depth) with both a map key `k`, and `k` tagged with the To Be Redacted tag (see {{tbr-tag}}).
```
